# <center>1P Apps</center>

<br></br>



## Terminology
Microsoft only. Apps meet all followings are considered "Microsoft only":
1. Registered by a Microsoft employee and/or contractor working to build an app or service for Microsoft. This app could be either for internal use by Microsoft employees only, or for external use by Microsoft customers.
2. Hosted and maintained by and within Microsoft.

1P app is a multi-tenant app registered in Microsoft Services infra tenant (f8cdef31-a31e-4b4a-93e4-5f571e91255a), informally known as 1P tenant. All apps that are registered in this tenant are subject to governance by Microsoft Identity.

3P apps encompass all apps that are NOT registered in Microsoft Services infra tenant. It's important to understand 3P apps can also be Microsoft only. For instance, Microsoft only apps that are registered in MSIT (tenant ID 72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47), AME, and Torus tenants are also considered 3P apps.

Reply URLs - If you're a resource app, you must register custom domains for your app's App ID URIs. All domains must be owned and managed by Microsoft.

<br></br>



## When to register app as 1P or 3P
All MSFT only apps that are customer facing must be registered as 1P apps in MSFT Services infra tenant. This includes resource apps that will be called directly by clients on behalf of customer users. For example, MSFT Graph, Exchange, and Azure DevOps are registered as 1P apps. Because both 1P apps (like Visual Studio) and 3P apps (like line-of-business apps a customer develops) can call these APIs as users.

All other MSFT only apps must be registered as 3P apps in appropriate tenant as outlined below:

|                                 MSFT Only App Scenario                                          |                          Example                                 |               Audience                     |   1P App?   | Required Tenant     |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------------|
| cx facing app may have access to cx content                                                     | Public-facing MSFT website that signs in cx                      | End user                                   | Yes         | MSFT Services infra |
| API called by clients on behalf of cx                                                           | MSFT Graph; Exchange; Azure DevOps                               | Called directly by clients on behalf of cx | Yes         | MSFT Services infra |
| MSFT IT app                                                                                     | Apps for internal like HRWeb                                     | MSFT employees                             | No          | MSIT                |
| Internal line-of-business (LoB) app that may have access to data about cx, but never cx content | Apps support MSFT's R&D, sales, support and operations functions | MSFT employees                             | No          | MSIT                |
| Server to server apps that may have access to customer content                                  | Core service identities to support Azure invisible in cx tenants | Internal MSFT services                     | No          | Azure or E&D infra (For example, AME, GME, PME, Torus) |
| Test app                                                                                        | Apps for local/dev/test environment                              | Not exposed to any audience                | Yes, can be | Private             |

1P apps are different in a few ways than apps use public app model we offer for all 3P. While they share many similarities, there are different aspects that cause the two to behave differently. The significant things to take away are:
- 1P apps can't ask for user consent.
- 1P apps must plan for [service principal provisioning](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/identity/microsoft-identity-platform/overview-of-service-principal-provisioning) through [commerce](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/identity/microsoft-identity-platform/commerce), or ARM.
- 1P apps access Azure AD Graph API differently than public apps do.

<br></br>



## 3P Consideration
### Resource apps that are accessible from multiple tenants
If a resource app exposes access to customer data, that resource app must be provisioned in same tenant as each client, that is, the tenant where the data behind each API logically belongs to.

For example, a client app in a customer tenant calls an API exposed by a multi-tenant resource app registered in AME tenant. Both client and resource apps must each have a SP in customer tenant, so that client can only access data from its tenant. Otherwise the client app could access customer data in AME tenant, which is effectively the same as copying data from AME to customer tenant.

<br></br>



## Create a New 1P App
At high level, there are two kinds of apps:

1. Web App and/or Web API (aka Confidential Client) - Web apps are any apps that have a client secret or certificate. This allows them to prove their identity to Microsoft Entra ID, so it enables scenarios like web apps, web APIs, daemon/service apps. Uniquely, web apps can call APIs in "app only" mode, which means they're calling on behalf of themselves, and not on behalf of a logged in user.

2. Native Client Apps (aka Public Clients) - Native client apps are apps that run on user's PC. As a result, we can't trust the host with things like secrets. Native clients can only be used for delegated access--in other words, access delegated by a user to client app.

The Microsoft identity platform endpoint supports authentication for various app architectures:
- single-page apps
- web apps
- web APIs
- mobile and native apps
- daemons and server-side apps.

Apps use various authentication flows to sign in users and get tokens to call protected APIs. Initial app creation requires several configuration steps that must be informed by your scenario, followed by an Admin approval.

<br>


### 1P portal and git-based approach
Previously, you had to visit 1P portal to create new app registration. 1P portal requires a SAW or on-campus wired LAN device. We're now providing git-based approach to manage 1P app registrations as Infrastructure as Code via 1P apps repo. This git-based approach is an alternative to using 1P portal.